---
layout: post
title:  EXTENSION OF ACCURACY LABEL 12 MONTHS VALIDITY
permalink: /news-and-media/circulars/extension-of-accuracy-label-12-months-validity
---

Date: 09 April 2020\
Our Ref: CW-WM-200409-1

## EXTENSION OF ACCURACY LABEL 12 MONTHS VALIDITY

This Circular is to inform Authorised Verifiers (AV) that Enterprise Singapore (ESG) is extending the ACCURACY Label’s 12 months validity, 
for the months of April and May effective 07 April – 31 May (“Extension Period”), and for such further period as may be extended by the Controller 
of Weights and Measures. This is to help minimise social contact in view of the announcement on 03 April 2020 on suspension of activities at 
workplace premises to reduce COVID-19 transmission during this period.

AVs may inform users of weighing or measuring instruments for trade use on the following:
- Weighing or Measuring instruments for trade use with ACCURACY Labels expiring in months of April and May do not need to have the ACCURACY Label 
renewed during the Extension Period;
- Users are expected to take all reasonable measures to send the instruments for renewal of the ACCURACY Label after the Extension Period;
- Users should exercise all reasonable measures to ensure their instruments remain accurate during the Extension Period and thereafter. 
ESG will take necessary enforcement actions against traders found to infringe the Weights and Measures Act/ Regulations for example, selling products
that are short weight to consumers.

### Initial Verification of Weighing and Measuring Instruments
For new weighing and measuring instruments supplied for trade use (for essential services), users are still responsible to ensure the instrument is
verified, sealed and affixed with an ACCURACY Label by an AV.

### Enforcement of ACCURACY Label validity
AVs may experience high volume of requests for ACCURACY Label renewal after the Extension Period. ESG will provide a grace period of 2 months for 
purpose of enforcement on ACCURACY Label validity. This means from Aug 2020 , businesses found using instruments with expired ACCURACY Label can 
expect to face punitive actions. This is also subjected to further changes to the Extension Period, and as required by the Controller of 
Weights and Measures.

For any question on this circular, you may contact Mr. Chia Junming, Javier at <Javier_Chia@enterprisesg.gov.sg>.

[EXTENSION OF ACCURACY LABEL 12 MONTHS VALIDITY](/news-and-media/circulars/circular-cw-wm-200409-1-extension-of-accuracy-label-12-months-validity.pdf){:target="_blank"}


